# employeesallariesinMGcounty
The dataset which I chose is regarding the Annual salary information along with the gross pay and the overtime pay of all the active, permanent employees of Montgomery County, MD in the year 2016.The Data Source for this dataset is : https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/employee-salaries-2016.I discovered this data source while browsing a site called data.gov where I typed ‘salaries’ in the search tab as I wanted data related to employees and their salary patterns. This data is an opensource and available for free to download. It is completely legal to access this data and using this data does not violate the terms of service. I checked online if anyone has previously performed an EDA on this data set or any kind of analysis on this data and did not find any citations nor any research papers related to this data set. This data set has 9228 rows and 12 columns(of different types like date, float ,strings etc.) and the size of this dataset is 1.42 MB. This data set has 9228 rows where each row represents the salary information of each employee and columns are Full name, Gender, Current Annual Salary(annual salary of the employee at the end of the calendar year 2016), Grass Pay received in 2016( entire earnings pre-tax deductions),Over time pay(pay for the hours for working beyond his schedule),Department code, Department name, Division in department to which the employee is assigned, Assignment Category(Fulltime/Part-time), Employee position title, Underfilled job title (the employee is currently holding lower rank job title but is currently filling a higher level position),Date first hired (when was the employee first hired). This data set has many missing values for the columns gross pay and overtime pay and an unwanted column, so we have to do some cleaning process. We can make visualizations for salaries of each department and each division and gender specific visualizations. We can use this data for understanding the annual pay for a particular position in a particular department, we can even get the average of salaries of all the employees in a particular department , compare wages by occupations, assist students in choosing a career decisions and find the different occupational profiles available etc
